<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XIX</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-19" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">XIX</h2>
			<p>It was bright morning when Hugo awoke. Through the windowpane in the room where he had slept, he could see a straggling back yard; damp clothes moved in the breeze, and beyond was a depression green with young shoots. He descended to the restaurant and ate his breakfast. Automobiles were swishing along the road outside and he could hear a clatter of dishes in the kitchen. Afterwards he went out doors and walked through the busy center of the village and on into the country.</p>
			<p>Sun streamed upon him; the sky was blue; birds twittered in the budding bushes. He had almost forgotten the beauty and peacefulness of springtime; now it came over him with a rush‚ÅÝ‚Äîpastel colors and fecund warmth, smells of earth and rain, melodious, haphazard wind. He knew intuitively that McClaren would never send for him; he wondered what <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝMills would say to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝShayne about him. Both thoughts passed like white clouds over his mind and he forgot them for an indolent vegetative tranquillity.</p>
			<p>The road curved over hills and descended into tinted valleys. Farmers were ploughing and planting. The men at the restaurant had told him that he was in Connecticut. That did not matter, for any other place would have been the same on this May morning. A truck-driver offered him a ride, which Hugo refused, and then, watching the cubic van surge away in the distance, he wished fugitively that he had accepted.</p>
			<p>Two half dollars and a quarter jingled in his pocket. His suit was seedy and his beard unshaven. A picture of New York ran through his mind: he stood far off from it gazing at the splendor of its towers in the morning light; he came closer and the noise of it smote his ears; suddenly he plunged into the city, his perspective vanished, and there rose about him the ugly, unrelated, inchoate masses of tawdriness that had been glorious from a distance, while people‚ÅÝ‚Äîdour, malicious, selfish people who scuttled like ants‚ÅÝ‚Äîsupplanted the vista of stone and steel. The trite truth of the ratio between approach and enchantment amused him. It was so obvious, yet so few mortals had the fine sense to withdraw themselves. He was very happy walking tirelessly along that road.</p>
			<p>After his luncheon he allowed a truck to carry him farther from the city, deeper into the magic of spring. The driver bubbled with it‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe wore a purple tulip in his greasy cap and he slowed down on the hilltops with an unassuming reverence and a naive slang that fitted well with Hugo‚Äôs mood. When he reached his destination, Hugo walked on with reluctance. Shadows of the higher places moved into the lowlands. He crossed a brook and leaned over its middle on the bridge rail, fascinated by an underwater landscape, complete, full of color, less than a foot high. From every side came the strident music of frogs. Spring, spring, spring, they sang, rolling their liquid gutturals and stopping abruptly when he came too near.</p>
			<p>In the evening, far from the city, he turned from the pavement on a muddy country road, walking on until he reached the skeleton of an old house. There he lay down, taking his supper from his pocket and eating it slowly. The floor of the second story had fallen down and he could see the stars through a hole in the roof. In such houses, he thought, the first chapters of American history had been lived. When it was entirely dark, a whippoorwill began to make its sweet and mournful music. Warmth and chilliness came together from the ground. He slept.</p>
			<p>In the morning he followed the road into the hills. Long stretches of woodland were interrupted by fields. He passed farmhouses and the paved drive of an estate. More than a mile from the deserted farm, more than two miles from the main road, half hidden in a skirt of venerable trees, he saw an old, green house behind which was a row of barns. It was a big house; tile medallions had been set in its foundations by an architect whose tombstone must now be aslant and illegible. It was built on a variety of planes and angles; gables cropped at random from its mossy roof. Grass grew in the broad yard under the trees, and in the grass were crocuses, yellow and red and blue, like wind-strewn confetti.</p>
			<p>Hugo paused to contemplate this peaceful edifice. A man walked briskly from one of the barn doors. He perceived Hugo and stopped, holding a spade in his hand. Then, after starting across to the house, he changed his mind and, dropping the spade, approached Hugo.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúLooking for work, my man?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Hugo smiled. ‚ÄúWhy‚ÅÝ‚Äîyes.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúKnow anything about cattle?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI was reared in a farming country.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGood.‚Äù He scrutinized Hugo minutely. ‚ÄúI‚Äôll try you at eight dollars a week, room, and board.‚Äù He opened the gate.</p>
			<p>Hugo paused. The notion of finding employment somewhere in the country had been fixed in his mind and he wondered why he waited, even as he did, when the charm of the old manor had offered itself to him as if by a miracle. The man swung open the gate; he was lithe, sober, direct.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMy name is Cane‚ÅÝ‚ÄîRalph Cane. We raise blooded Guernsey stock here. At the moment we haven‚Äôt a man.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI see,‚Äù Hugo said.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI could make the eight ten‚ÅÝ‚Äîin a week‚ÅÝ‚Äîif you were satisfactory.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI wasn‚Äôt considering the money‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHow?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI wasn‚Äôt considering the money.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh! Come in. Try it.‚Äù An eagerness was apparent in his tone. While Hugo still halted on a knoll of indecision, a woman opened the French windows which lined one fa√ßade of the house and stepped down from the porch. She was very tall and very slender. Her eyes were slaty blue and there was a delicate suggestion‚ÅÝ‚Äîalmost an apparition‚ÅÝ‚Äîof grey in her hair.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat is it, Ralph?‚Äù Her voice was cool and pitched low.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThis is my wife,‚Äù Cane said.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMy name is Danner.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Cane explained. ‚ÄúI saw this man standing by the gate, and now I‚Äôm hiring him.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI see,‚Äù she said. She looked at Hugo. The crystalline substance of her eyes glinted transiently with some inwardness‚ÅÝ‚Äîsurprise, a vanishing gladness, it might have been. ‚ÄúYou are looking for work?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes,‚Äù Hugo answered.</p>
			<p>Cane spoke hastily. ‚ÄúI offered him eight a week and board, Roseanne.‚Äù</p>
			<p>She glanced at her husband and returned her attention inquisitively to Hugo. ‚ÄúAre you interested?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôll try it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Cane frowned nervously, walked to his wife, and nodded with averted face. Then he addressed Hugo: ‚ÄúYou can sleep in the barn. We have quarters there. I don‚Äôt think we‚Äôll be in for any more cold weather. If you‚Äôll come with me now, I‚Äôll start you right in.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Until noon Hugo cleaned stables. There were two dozen cows‚ÅÝ‚Äîanimals that would have seemed beautiful to a rustic connoisseur‚ÅÝ‚Äîand one lordly bull with malignant horns and bloodshot eyes. He shoveled the pungent and not offensive debris into a wheelbarrow and transferred it to a dung-heap that sweated with internal humidity. At noon Cane came into the barn.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúPretty good,‚Äù he said, viewing floors fairly shaved by Hugo‚Äôs diligence. ‚ÄúLunch is ready. You‚Äôll eat in the kitchen.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Hugo saw the woman again. She was toiling over a stove, her hair in disarray, a spotted apron covering her long body. He realized that they had no servants, that the three of them constituted the human inhabitants of the estate‚ÅÝ‚Äîbut there were shades, innumerable shades, of a long past, and some of those ghosts had crept into Roseanne‚Äôs slaty eyes. She carried lunch for herself and her husband into a front room and left him to eat in the soft silence.</p>
			<p>After lunch Cane spoke to him again. ‚ÄúCan you plough?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt‚Äôs been a long time‚ÅÝ‚Äîbut I think so.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGood. I have a team. We‚Äôll drive to the north field. I‚Äôve got to start getting the corn in pretty soon.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The room in the barn was bare: four board walls, a board ceiling and floor, an iron cot, blankets, the sound and smell of the cows beneath. Hugo slept dreamlessly, and when he woke, he was ravenous.</p>
			<p>His week passed. Cane drove him like a slave-master, but to drive Hugo was an unhazardous thing. He did not think much, and when he did, it was to read the innuendo of living that was written parallel to the existence of his employer and Roseanne. They were troubled with each other. Part of that trouble sprang from an evident source: Cane was a miser. He resented the amount of food that Hugo consumed, despite the unequal ratio of Hugo‚Äôs labors. When Hugo asked for a few dollars in advance, he was curtly refused. That had happened at lunch one day. After lunch, however, and evidently after Cane had debated with his wife, he inquired of Hugo what he wanted. A razor and some shaving things and new trousers, Hugo had said.</p>
			<p>Cane drove the station wagon to town and returned with the desired articles. He gave them to Hugo.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThank you,‚Äù Hugo said.</p>
			<p>Cane chuckled, opening his thin lips wide. ‚ÄúAll right, Danner. As a matter of fact, it‚Äôs money in my bank.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMoney in your bank?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSure. I‚Äôve lived here for years and I get a ten-per-cent discount at the general store. But I‚Äôm charging you full price‚ÅÝ‚Äînaturally.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNaturally,‚Äù Hugo agreed.</p>
			<p>That was one thing that would make the tribulation in her eyes. Hugo wished that he could have met these two people on a different basis, so that he could have learned the truth about them. It was plain that they were educated, cultured, refined. Cane had said something once about raising cattle in England, and Roseanne had cooked peas as she had learned to cook them in France. ‚Äú<i xml:lang="fr">Petits pois au beurre</i>,‚Äù she had murmured‚ÅÝ‚Äîwith an unimpeachable accent.</p>
			<p>Then the week had passed and there had been no mention of the advance in wages. For himself, Hugo did not care. But it was easy to see why no one had been working on the place when Hugo arrived, why they were eager to hire a transient stranger.</p>
			<p>He learned part of what he had already guessed from a clerk in the general store. One of the cows was ailing. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝCane could not drive to town (<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝCane, it seemed, never left the house and its environs) and they had sent Hugo.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou working for the Canes?‚Äù the clerk had asked.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúFunny people.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Hugo replied indirectly. ‚ÄúHave they lived here long?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúLong? Roseanne Cane was a Bishop. The Bishops built that house and the house before it‚ÅÝ‚Äîback in the seventeen hundreds. They had a lot of money. Have it still, I guess, but Cane‚Äôs too tight to spend it.‚Äù There was nothing furtive in the youth‚Äôs manner; he was evidently touching on common village gossip. ‚ÄúYes, sir, too tight. Won‚Äôt give her a maid. But before her folks died, it was Europe every year and a maid for every one of ‚Äôem, and ‚ÄòWhy, deary, don‚Äôt tell me that‚Äôs the second time you‚Äôve put on that dress! Take it right off and never wear it again.‚Äô‚Ää‚Äù The joke was part of the formula for telling about the Canes, and the clerk snickered appreciatively. ‚ÄúYes, sir. You come down here some day when I ain‚Äôt got the Friday orders to fill an‚Äô I‚Äôll tell you some things about old man Cane that‚Äôll turn your stummick.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Hugo accepted his bundle, set it in the seat beside himself, and drove back to the big, green house.</p>
			<p>Later in the day he said to Cane: ‚ÄúIf you will want me to drive the station wagon very often, I ought to have a license.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGo ahead. Get one.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI couldn‚Äôt afford it at the moment, and since it would be entirely for you, I thought‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI see,‚Äù Cane answered calmly. ‚ÄúTrying to get a license out of me. Well, you‚Äôre out of luck. You probably won‚Äôt be needed as a chauffeur again for the next year. If you are, you‚Äôll drive without a license, and drive damn carefully, too, because any fines or any accidents would come out of your wages.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Hugo received the insult unmoved. He wondered what Cane would say if he smashed the car and made an escape. He knew he would not do it; the whole universe appeared so constructed that men like Cane inevitably avoided their desserts.</p>
			<p>June came, and July. The seashore was not distant and occasionally at night Hugo slipped away from the woods and lay on the sand, sometimes drinking in the firmament, sometimes closing his eyes. When it was very hot he undressed behind a pile of barnacle-covered boulders and swam far out in the water. He swam naked, unmolested, stirring up tiny whirlpools of phosphorescence, and afterwards, damp and cool, he would dress and steal back to the barn through the forest and the hay-sweet fields.</p>
			<p>One day a man in Middletown asked <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝCane to call on him regarding the possible purchase of three cows. Cane‚Äôs cows were raised with the maximum of human care, the minimum of extraneous expense. His profit on them was great and he sold them, ordinarily, one at a time. He was so excited at the prospect of a triple sale that for a day he was almost gay, very nearly generous. He drove off blithely‚ÅÝ‚Äînot in the sedan, but in the station wagon, because its gasoline mileage was greater.</p>
			<p>It was a day filled with wonder for Hugo. When Cane drove from the house, Roseanne was standing beside the drive. She walked over to the barn and said to Hugo in an oddly agitated voice: ‚Äú<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝDanner, could you spare an hour or two this morning to help me get some flowers from the woods?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúCertainly.‚Äù</p>
			<p>She glanced in the direction her husband had taken and hurried to the kitchen, returning presently with two baskets and a trowel. He followed her up the road. They turned off on an overgrown path, pushed through underbrush, and arrived in a few minutes at the side of a pond. The edges were grown thick with bushes and water weeds, dead trees lifted awkward arms at the upper end, and dragon flies skimmed over the warm brown water.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI used to come here to play when I was a little girl,‚Äù she said. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs still just the same.‚Äù She wore a blue dress; branches had dishevelled her hair; she seemed more alive than he had ever seen her.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt‚Äôs charming,‚Äù Hugo answered.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThere used to be a path all the way around‚ÅÝ‚Äîwith stones crossing the brook at the inlet. And over there, underneath those pine trees, there are some orchids. I‚Äôve always wanted to bring them down to the house. I think I could make them grow. Of course, this is a bad time to transplant anything‚ÅÝ‚Äîbut I so seldom get a chance. I can‚Äôt remember when‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhen‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>He realized with a shock that she was going to cry. She turned her head away and peered into the green wall. ‚ÄúI think it‚Äôs here,‚Äù she said tremulously.</p>
			<p>They followed a dimly discernible trail; there were deer tracks in it and signs of other animals whose feet had kept it passable. It was hot and damp and they were forced to bend low beneath the tangle to make progress. Almost suddenly they emerged in a grove of white pines. They stood upright and looked: wind stirred sibilantly in the high tops, and the ground underfoot was a soft carpet; the lake reflected the blue of the sky instead of the brown of its soft bottom.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúLet‚Äôs rest a minute,‚Äù she said. And then: ‚ÄúI always think a pine grove is like a cathedral. I read somewhere that pines inspired Gothic architecture. Do you suppose it‚Äôs true?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThere was the lotus and the Corinthian column,‚Äù Hugo answered.</p>
			<p>They sat down. This was a new emotion‚ÅÝ‚Äîa paradoxical emotion for him. He had come to an inharmonious sanctuary and he could expect both tragedy and enchantment. There was Roseanne herself, a hidden beautiful thing in whom were prisoned many beauties. She was growing old in the frosty seclusion of her husband‚Äôs company. She was feeding on the toothless food of dreams when her hunger was still strong. That much anyone might see; the reason alone remained invisible. He was acutely conscious of an hour at hand, an imminent moment of vision.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou‚Äôre a strange man,‚Äù she said finally.</p>
			<p>That was to be the password. ‚ÄúYes?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôve watched you every day from the kitchen window.‚Äù Her depression had gone now and she was talking with a vague excitement.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHave you?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDo you mind if we pretend for a minute?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôd like it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThen let‚Äôs pretend this is a magic carpet and we‚Äôve flown away from the world and there‚Äôs nothing to do but play. Play,‚Äù she repeated musingly. ‚ÄúI‚Äôll be Roseanne and you‚Äôll be Hugo. You see, I found out your name from the letters. I found out a lot about you. Not facts like born, occupation, father‚Äôs first name; just‚ÅÝ‚Äîthings.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He dared a little then. ‚ÄúWhat sort of things, Roseanne?‚Äù</p>
			<p>She laughed. ‚ÄúI knew you could do it! That‚Äôs one of them. I found out you had a soul. Souls show even in barnyards. You looked at the peonies one day and you played with the puppies the next. In one way‚ÅÝ‚ÄîHugo‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou‚Äôre a failure as a farm hand.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúFailure?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúA flop. You never make a grammatical mistake.‚Äù She saw his surprise and laughed again. ‚ÄúAnd your manners‚ÅÝ‚Äîand, then, you understood French. See‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe carpet is taking us higher and farther away. Isn‚Äôt it fun! You‚Äôre the hired man and I‚Äôm the farmer‚Äôs wife and all of a sudden‚ÅÝ‚Äîwe‚Äôre‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúA prince and princess?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat‚Äôs exactly right. I won‚Äôt pretend I‚Äôm not curious‚ÅÝ‚Äîmorbidly curious. But I won‚Äôt ask questions, either, because that isn‚Äôt what the carpet is for.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat is it for, Roseanne?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúTo get away from the world, silly. And now‚ÅÝ‚Äîthere‚Äôs a look about you. When I was a little girl, my father was a great man, and many great men used to come to our house. I know what the frown of power is and the attitude of greatness. You have them‚ÅÝ‚Äîmuch more than any pompous old magnate I ever laid eyes on. The way you touch things and handle them, the way you square your shoulders. Sometimes I think you‚Äôre not real at all and just an imaginary knight come to storm my castle. And sometimes I think you‚Äôre a very famous man whose afternoon walk just has been extended for a few months. The first thought frightens me, and the second makes me wonder why I haven‚Äôt seen your picture in the Sunday rotogravures.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Hugo‚Äôs shoulders shook. ‚ÄúPoor Princess Roseanne. And what do I think about you, then‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>She held up her hand. ‚ÄúDon‚Äôt tell me, Hugo. I should be sad. After all, my life‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMay be what it does not appear to be.‚Äù</p>
			<p>She took a brittle pine twig and dug in the mould of the needles until it broke. ‚ÄúRalph‚ÅÝ‚Äîwas different once. He was a chemist. Then‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe war came. And he was there and a shell‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAh,‚Äù Hugo said. ‚ÄúAnd you loved him before?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI had promised him before. But it changed him so. And it‚Äôs hard.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThe carpet,‚Äù he answered gently. ‚ÄúThe carpet‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI almost dropped off, and then I‚Äôd have been hurt, wouldn‚Äôt I?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúA favor for a favor. I‚Äôm not a great man, but I hope to be one. I have something that I think is a talent. Let it go at that. The letters come from my father and mother‚ÅÝ‚Äîin Colorado.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôve never seen Colorado.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt‚Äôs big‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúLike the nursery of the Titans, I think,‚Äù she said softly, and Hugo shuddered. The instinct had been too true.</p>
			<p>Her eyes were suddenly stormy. ‚ÄúI feel old enough to mother you, Hugo. And yet, since you came, I‚Äôve been a little bit in love with you. It doesn‚Äôt matter, does it?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI think‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI know‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSit closer to me then, Hugo.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The sun had passed the zenith before they spoke connectedly again. ‚ÄúTime for the magic carpet to come to earth,‚Äù she said gaily.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIs it?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDon‚Äôt be masculine any longer‚ÅÝ‚Äîand don‚Äôt be rudely possessive. Of course it is. Aren‚Äôt you hungry?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI was hungry‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù he began moodily.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAll off at earth. Come on. Button me. Am I a sight?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI disregard the bait.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou‚Äôre being funny. Come. No‚ÅÝ‚Äîwait. We‚Äôve forgotten the orchids. I wonder if I really came for orchids. Should you be terribly offended if I said I thought I did?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúExtravagantly offended.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Cane returned late in the day. The cows had been sold‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚ÄúI even made five hundred clear and above the feeding and labor on the one with the off leg. She‚Äôll breed good cattle.‚Äù The barns were as clean as a park, and Roseanne was singing as she prepared dinner.</p>
			<p>Nothing happened until a hot night in August. The leaves were still and limp, the moon had set. Hugo lay awake and he heard her coming quietly up the stairs.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúRalph had a headache and he took two triple bromides. Of course, I could always have said that I heard one of the cows in distress and came to wake you. But he‚Äôs jealous, poor dear. And then‚ÅÝ‚Äîbut who could resist a couple of simultaneous alibis?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNobody,‚Äù he whispered. She sat down on his bed. He put his arm around her and felt that she was in a nightdress. ‚ÄúI wish I could see you now.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThen take this flashlight‚ÅÝ‚Äîjust for an instant. Wait.‚Äù He heard the rustle of her clothing. ‚ÄúNow.‚Äù</p>
			<p>She heard him draw in his breath. Then the light went out.</p>
			<p>With the approach of autumn weather Roseanne caught a cold. She continued her myriad tasks, but he could see that she was miserable. Even Cane sympathized with her gruffly. When the week of the cattle show in New York arrived, the cold was worse and she begged off the long trip on the trucks with the animals. He departed alone with his two most precious cows, scarcely thinking of her, muttering about judges and prizes.</p>
			<p>Again she came out to the barn. ‚ÄúYou‚Äôve made me a dreadful hypocrite.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI know it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou were waiting for me! Men are so disgustingly sure of everything!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBut‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôve made myself cough and sniffle until I can‚Äôt stop.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Hugo smiled broadly. ‚ÄúAll aboard the carpet.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
			<p>They lay in a field that was surrounded by trees. The high weeds hid them. Goldenrod hung over them. ‚ÄúLife can‚Äôt go on‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúLike this,‚Äù he finished for her.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell‚ÅÝ‚Äîcan it?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt‚Äôs up to you, Roseanne. I never knew there were women‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúLike me? You should have said ‚Äòwas a woman.‚Äô‚Ää‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWould you run away with me?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNever.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAren‚Äôt we just hunting for an emotion?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúPerhaps. Because there was a day‚ÅÝ‚Äîone day‚ÅÝ‚Äîin the pines‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>He nodded. ‚ÄúDifferent from these other two. That‚Äôs because of the tragic formation of life. There is only one first, only one commencement, only one virginity. Then‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúCharacter sets in.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThen it becomes living. It may remain beautiful, but it cannot remain original.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou‚Äôd be hard to live with.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhy, Roseanne?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBecause you‚Äôre so determined not to have an illusion.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd you‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGo on. Say it. I‚Äôm so determined to have one.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAre we quarreling? I can fix that. Come closer, Roseanne.‚Äù Her face changed through delicate shades of feeling to tenderness and to intensity. Abruptly Hugo leaped to his feet.</p>
			<p>The rhythmic thunder rode down upon them like the wind. A few yards away, head down, tail straight, the big bull charged over the ground like an avalanche. Roseanne lifted herself in time to see Hugo take two quick steps, draw back his fist, and hit the bull between the horns. It was a diabolical thing. The bull was thrown back upon itself. Its neck snapped loudly. Its feet crumpled; it dropped dead. Twenty feet to one side was a stone wall. Hugo picked up a hoof and dragged the carcass to the base of the wall. With his hand he made an indenture in the rocks, and over the face of the hollow he splashed the bull‚Äôs blood. Then he approached Roseanne. The whole episode had occupied less than a minute.</p>
			<p>She had hunched her shoulders together, and her face was pale. She articulated with difficulty. ‚ÄúThe bull‚Äù‚ÅÝ‚Äîher hands twitched‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äúbroke in here‚ÅÝ‚Äîand you hit him.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúJust in time, Roseanne.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou killed him. Then‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhy did you drag him over there?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBecause,‚Äù Hugo answered slowly, ‚ÄúI thought it would be better to make it seem as if he charged the wall and broke his neck that way.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Her frigidity was worse than any hysteria. ‚ÄúIt isn‚Äôt natural to be able to do things like that. It isn‚Äôt human.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He swallowed; those words in that stifled intonation were very familiar. ‚ÄúI know it. I‚Äôm very strong.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Roseanne looked down at the grass. ‚ÄúWipe your hand, will you?‚Äù</p>
			<p>He rubbed it in the earth. ‚ÄúYou mustn‚Äôt be frightened.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo?‚Äù She laughed a little. ‚ÄúWhat must I be, then? I‚Äôm alive, I‚Äôm crawling with terror. Don‚Äôt touch me!‚Äù She screamed and drew back.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI can explain it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou can explain everything! But not that.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt was an idiotic, wild, unfair thing to have happen at this time,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúMy life‚Äôs like that.‚Äù He looked beyond her. ‚ÄúI began wanting to do tremendous things. The more I tried, the more discouraged I became. You see, I was strong. There have been other things figuratively like the bull. But the things themselves get littler and more preposterous, because my ambition and my nerve grows smaller.‚Äù He lowered his head. ‚ÄúSome day‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI shan‚Äôt want to do anything at all any more. Continuous and unwonted defeat might infuriate some men to a great effort. It‚Äôs tiring me.‚Äù He raised his eyes sadly to hers. ‚ÄúRoseanne‚ÅÝ‚Äî!‚Äù</p>
			<p>She gathered her legs under herself and ran. Hugo made no attempt to follow her. He merely watched. Twice she tripped and once she fell. At the stone wall she looked back at him. It was not necessary to be able to see her expression. She went on across the fields‚ÅÝ‚Äîa skinny, flapping thing‚ÅÝ‚Äîat last a mere spot of moving color.</p>
			<p>Hugo turned and stared at the brown mound of the bull. After a moment he walked over and stood above it. Its tongue hung out and its mouth grinned. It lay there dead, and yet to Hugo it still had life: the indestructibility of a ghost and the immortality of a symbol. He sat beside it until sundown.</p>
			<p>At twilight he entered the barn and tended the cows. The doors of the house were closed. He went without supper. Cane returned jubilantly later in the evening. He called Hugo from the back porch.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúTelegram for you.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Hugo read the wire. His father was sick and failing rapidly. ‚ÄúI want my wages,‚Äù he said. Then he went back to the barn. His trifling belongings were already wrapped in a bundle. Cane reluctantly counted out the money. Hugo felt nauseated and feverish. He put the money in his pocket, the bundle under his arm; he opened the gate, and his feet found the soft earth of the road in the darkness.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
