<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XVII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-17" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVII</h2>
			<p>Hugo sat in Madison Square Park giving his attention in a circuit to the Flatiron Building, the clock on the Metropolitan Tower, and the creeping barrage of traffic that sent people scampering, stopped, moved forward again. He had sat on the identical bench at the identical time of day during his obscure undergraduate period. To repeat that contemplative stasis after so much living had intervened ought to have produced an emotion. He had gone to the park with that idea. But the febrile fires of feeling were banked under the weight of many things and he could suffer nothing, enjoy nothing and think but one fragmentary routine.</p>
			<p>He had tried much and made no progress. He would be forced presently to depart on a different course from a new threshold. That idea went round and round in his head like a single fly in a big room. It lost poignancy and eventually it lost meaning. Still he sat in feeble sunshine trying to move beyond stagnancy. He remembered the small man with the huge roll of bills who had moved beside him and asked for a cup of coffee. He remembered the woman who had robbed him; silk ankles crossed his line of vision, and a gusty appetite vaporized even as it steamed into the coldness of his indecision.</p>
			<p>He was without money now, as he had been then, so long ago. He budged on the bench and challenged himself to think.</p>
			<p>What would you do if you were the strongest man in the world, the strongest thing in the world, mightier than the machine? He made himself guess answers for that rhetorical query. “I would⁠—I would have won the war. But I did not. I would run the universe single-handed. Literally single-handed. I would scorn the universe and turn it to my own ends. I would be a criminal. I would rip open banks and gut them. I would kill and destroy. I would be a secret, invisible blight. I would set out to stamp crime off the earth; I would be a super-detective, following and summarily punishing every criminal until no one dared to commit a felony. What would I do? What will I do?”</p>
			<p>Then he realized that he was hungry. He had not eaten enough in the last few days. Enough for him. With some intention of finding work he had left <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Shayne’s house. A call on the telephone from <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Shayne himself volunteering a position had crystallized that intention. In three days he had discovered the vast abundance of young men, the embarrassment of young men, who were walking along the streets looking for work. He who had always worked with his arms and shoulders had determined to try to earn his living with his head. But the white-collar ranks were teeming, overflowing, supersaturated. He went down in the scale of clerkships and inexperienced clerkships. There was no work.</p>
			<p>Thence he had gone to the park, and presently he rose. He had seen the clusters of men on Sixth Avenue standing outside the employment agencies. He could go there. Any employment was better than hunger⁠—and he had learned that hunger could come swiftly and formidably to him. Business was slack, hands were being laid off; where an apprentice was required, three trained men waited avidly for work. It was appalling and Hugo saw it as appalling. He was not frightened, but, as he walked, he knew that it was a mistake to sit in the park with the myriad other men. Walking made him feel better. It was action, it bred the thought that any work was better than none. Work would not hinder his dreams, meantime.</p>
			<p>When he reached Forty-second Street he could see the sullen, watchful groups of men. He joined one of them. A loose-jointed, dark-faced person came down a flight of stairs, wrote on a blackboard in chalk, and went up again. Several of the group detached themselves and followed him⁠—to compete for a chance to wash windows.</p>
			<p>A man at his side spoke to him. “Tough, ain’t it, buddy?”</p>
			<p>“Yeah, it’s tough,” Hugo said.</p>
			<p>“I got three bones left. Wanna join me in a feed an’ get a job afterward?”</p>
			<p>Hugo looked into his eyes. They were troubled and desirous of companionship. “No, thanks,” he replied.</p>
			<p>They waited for the man to scribble again in chalk.</p>
			<p>“They was goin’ to fix up everybody slick after the war. Oh, hell, yes.”</p>
			<p>“You in it?” Hugo asked.</p>
			<p>“Up to my Goddamned neck, buddy.”</p>
			<p>“Me, too. Guess I’ll go up the line.”</p>
			<p>“I’ll go witcha.”</p>
			<p>“Well⁠—”</p>
			<p>They waited a moment longer, for the man with the chalk had reappeared. Hugo’s comrade grunted. “Wash windows an’ work in the steel mills. Break your neck or burn your ear off. Wha’ do they care?” Hugo had taken a step toward the door, but the youth with the troubled eyes caught his sleeve. “Don’t go up for that, son. They burn you in them steel mills. I seen guys afterward. Two years an’ you’re all done. This is tough, but that’s tougher. Sweet Jesus, I’ll say it is.”</p>
			<p>Hugo loosened himself. “Gotta eat, buddy. I don’t happen to have even three bones available at the moment.”</p>
			<p>The man looked after him. “Gosh,” he murmured. “Even guys like that.”</p>
			<p>He was in a dingy room standing before a grilled window. A voice from behind it asked his name, age, address, war record. Hugo was handed a piece of paper to sign and then a second piece that bore the scrawled words: “Amalgamated Crucible Steel Corp., Harrison, N. J.”</p>
			<p>Hugo’s emotional life was reawakened when he walked into the mills. His last nickel was gone. He had left the train at the wrong station and walked more than a mile. He was hungry and cold. He came, as if naked, to the monster and he did it homage.</p>
			<p>Its predominant colour scheme was black and red. It had a loud, pagan voice. It breathed fire. It melted steel and rock and drank human sweat, with human blood for an occasional stimulant. On every side of him were enormous buildings and woven between them a plaid of girders, cables, and tracks across which masses of machinery moved. Inside, Thor was hammering. Inside, a crane sped overhead like a tarantula, trailing its viscera to the floor, dangling a gigantic iron rib. A white speck in its wounded abdomen was a human face.</p>
			<p>The bright metal gushed from another hole. It was livid and partially alive; it was hot and had a smell; it swept away the thought of the dark descending night. It made a pool in a great ladle; it made a cupful dipped from a river in hell. A furnace exhaled sulphurously, darting a snake’s tongue into the sky. The mills roared and the earth shook. It was bestial, reptilian⁠—labour, and the labour of creation, and the engine that turned the earth could be no more terrible.</p>
			<p>Hugo, standing sublimely small in its midst, measured his strength against it, soaked up its warmth, shook his fist at it, and shouted in a voice that could not be heard for a foot: “Christ Almighty! This⁠—is something!”</p>
			<p>“Name?”</p>
			<p>“Hugo Danner.”</p>
			<p>“Address?”</p>
			<p>“None at present.”</p>
			<p>“Experience?”</p>
			<p>“None.”</p>
			<p>“Married?”</p>
			<p>“No.”</p>
			<p>“Union?”</p>
			<p>“What?”</p>
			<p>“Lemme see your union card.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t belong.”</p>
			<p>“Well, you gotta join.”</p>
			<p>He went to the headquarters of the union. Men were there of all sorts. The mills were taking on hands. There was reconstruction to be done abroad and steel was needed. They came from Europe, for the most part. Thickset, square-headed, small-eyed men. Men with expressionless faces and bulging muscles that held more meaning than most countenances. They gave him room and no more. They answered the same questions that he answered. He stood in a third queue with them, belly to back, mouths closed. He was sent to a lodging-house, advanced five dollars, and told that he would be boarded and given a bed and no more until the employment agency had taken its commission, and the union its dues. He signed a paper. He went on the night shift without supper.</p>
			<p>He ran a wheelbarrow filled with heavy, warm slag for a hundred feet over a walk of loose bricks. The job was simple. Load, carry, dump, return, load. On some later night he would count the number of loads. But on this first night he walked with excited eyes, watching the tremendous things that happened all around him. Men ran the machinery that dumped the ladle. Men guided liquid iron from the furnaces into a maze of channels and cloughs, clearing the way through the sand, cutting off the stream, making new openings. Men wheeled the slag and steered the trains and trams and cranes. Men operated the hammers. And almost all of the men were nude to the waist, sleek and shining with sweat; almost all of them drank whisky.</p>
			<p>One of the men in the wheelbarrow line even offered a drink to Hugo. He held out the flask and bellowed in Czech. Hugo took it. The drink was raw and foul. Pouring into his empty stomach, it had a powerful effect, making him exalted, making him work like a demon. After a long, noisy time that did not seem long a steam whistle screamed faintly and the shift was ended.</p>
			<p>The Czech accompanied Hugo through the door. The new shift was already at work. They went out. A nightmare of brilliant orange and black fled from Hugo’s vision and he looked into the pale, remote chiaroscuro of dawn.</p>
			<p>“Me tired,” the Czech said in a small, aimless tone.</p>
			<p>They flung themselves on dirty beds in a big room. But Hugo did not sleep for a time⁠—not until the sun rose and day was evident in the grimy interior of the bunk house.</p>
			<p>That he could think while he worked had been Hugo’s thesis when he walked up Sixth Avenue. Now, working steadily, working at a thing that was hard for other men and easy for him, he nevertheless fell into the stolid vacuum of the manual labourer. The mills became familiar, less fantastic. He remembered that oftentimes the war had given a more dramatic passage of man’s imagination forged into fire and steel.</p>
			<p>His task was changed numerous times. For a while he puddled pig iron with the long-handled, hoe-like tool.</p>
			<p>“Don’t slip in,” they said. It was succinct, graphic.</p>
			<p>Then they put him on the hand cars that fed the furnaces. It was picturesque, daring, and for most men too hard. Few could manage the weight or keep up with the pace. Those who did were honoured by their fellows. The trucks were moved forward by human strength and dumped by hand-windlasses. Occasionally, they said, you became tired and fell into the furnace. Or jumped. If you got feeling woozy, they said, quit. The high rails and red mouths were hypnotic, like burning Baal and the Juggernaut.</p>
			<p>Hugo’s problems had been abandoned. He worked as hard as he dared. The presence of grandeur and din made him content. How long it would have lasted is uncertain; not forever. On the day when he had pushed up two hundred and three loads during his shift, the boss stopped him in the yard.</p>
			<p>A tall, lean, acid man. He caught Hugo’s sleeve and turned him round. “You’re one of the bastards on the furnace line.”</p>
			<p>“Yes.”</p>
			<p>“How many cars did you push up today?”</p>
			<p>“Two hundred and three.”</p>
			<p>“What the hell do you think this is, anyway?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t get you.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, you don’t, huh? Well, listen here, you Goddamned athlete, what are you trying to do? You got the men all sore⁠—wearing themselves out. I had to lay off three⁠—why? Because they couldn’t keep up with you, that’s why. Because they got their guts in a snarl trying to bust your record. What do you think you’re in? A race? Somebody’s got to show you your place around here and I think I’ll just kick a lung out right now.”</p>
			<p>The boss had worked himself into a fury. He became conscious of an audience of workers. Hugo smiled. “I wouldn’t advise you to try that⁠—even if you are a big guy.”</p>
			<p>“What was that?” The words were roared. He gathered himself, but when Hugo did not flinch, did not prepare himself, he was suddenly startled. He remembered, perhaps, the two hundred and three cars. He opened his fist. “All right. I ain’t even goin’ to bother myself tryin’ to break you in to this game. Get out.”</p>
			<p>“What?”</p>
			<p>“Get out. Beat it. I’m firing you.”</p>
			<p>“Firing me? For working too hard?” Hugo laughed. He bent double with laughter. His laughter sounded above the thunder of the mill. “Oh, God, that’s funny. Fire me!” He moved toward the boss menacingly. “I’ve a notion to twist your liver around your neck myself.”</p>
			<p>The workers realized that an event of some magnitude was taking place. They drew nearer. Hugo’s laughter came again and changed into a smile⁠—an emotion that cooled visibly. Then swiftly he peeled up the sleeve of his shirt. His fist clenched; his arm bent; under the nose of his boss he caused his mighty biceps to swell. His whole body trembled. With his other hand he took the tall man’s fingers and laid them on that muscle.</p>
			<p>“Squeeze,” he shouted.</p>
			<p>The boss squeezed. His face grew pallid and he let go suddenly. He tried to speak through his dry mouth, but Hugo had turned his back. At the brick gate post he paused and drew a breath.</p>
			<p>His words resounded like the crack of doom. “So long!”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
